well we can now speak to Hassan barari
he's joining us here in our studio in
Doha he's a professor for international
Affairs at Qatar University Welcome to
Al jazer um what do you make of the
messaging that's coming out of the white
house because um what Kimberly was just
referring to there a moment ago was um a
few earlier this week when the US
President Joe Biden gave an interview to
American Media where he said uh ra an
invasion of RA would be his red line but
then he backtracked and said I will
never leave Israel and now we hear this
from the National Security adviser what
do you make of these is it mixed
messaging
I I think it is it is mix messaging I
mean Biden look Biden cannot not to
support Israel he can't afford it
politically speaking he want to be seen
as someone who's backing Israel in this
war in Gaza and especially with the
objective of the war is to dismantle
Hamas and that's why he kept like
sending them the weapons and and
munition uh this is one thing another
thing is that he don't want to be seen
as as if as supporting ethnic cleansing
and also targeting civilians because if
the Israelis go on attack and attack ra
I think you know civilian going to be
impacted so I think he's in in limbo on
the one hand he want to be seen as
someone who is supporting uh um human
rights but at the same time he's one
who's who want to be seen as supporting
Israel in his four objectives do you
think that the Israelis still have the
intention to go into ra until this
moment it's really hard to tell uh but n
wants the war to continue uh because
putting an end to the war at this moment
will put netan in in trouble internally
and so he want to continue the war and
he using the protect of of everything
protect of the hostages in order to
continue the war he I think eventually
if he does not get into the war in in in
ra it is really hard for him to liberate
the hostages because a deal is not in
the offering and the deal entails a lot
of concessions on the part of the
Israeli government and netan is not is
unwilling to do that that's the thing I
mean when it comes to the deal we heard
from the CES today saying that look the
both sides are still quite far apart Ian
could he be using this threat of f as
some sort of negotiating strategy a
negotiating tactic absolutely uh he
threatens to uh invade RAF and to it out
but at the same time it is really
difficult for him to do this without
killing many civilians uh so he's using
this in order to put a lot of pressure
on Hamas to make them agree to his uh
terms of ceasefire he wants to De braate
the hostages in order to continue the
war and this is the message where Hamas
finds really hard to accept right and um
look we just heard a few uh earlier uh
in fact this hour from the unwa head of
unur who's who's saying this that the
you that more children have been killed
in Israel's war on Gaza than in four
years of worldwide conflict I mean just
how devastating is that statistic it
also shows how indifferent the Israelis
when it comes to the human rights and
when it comes to the civilians they just
bombarded in in a blind way in order to
put the pressure in order to turn the uh
uh the Palestinian public against Hamas
it it is a game that is being played by
the Israeli they want to put a lot of
pressure on Hamas and make him make them
undesirable uh uh Partners H and that's
why they killed the I think they killed
the civilian civilian sometimes on
purpose is there any sign that that
pressure is achieving the results of the
israelies wanteded to achieve so what is
the result what is the outcome to
liberate the hostages the Palestinians
are unwilling to do this and until they
come uh to to agree on a deal and the
Israelis are unwilling to do uh to agree
on a deal unless Hamas came in and Hamas
I think is not going to came in at this
moment especially after all this
sacrifices okay Hassan barari thank you
so
much